#summary Schema for whitelists used by the Cajoler
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Whitelist File Format and Schema =

== Background ==

Caja uses white-lists to approve HTML tags, HTML attributes, and CSS properties.  These white-lists were hard-coded in java files.

The white-list is a table of white-listed item.  Each row in the table includes a key (variously an HTML element name, HTML attribute name, or CSS property name), and some information about the item's content.

Although we believe the default white-lists are fairly comprehensive, clients that do their own preprocessing of HTML & CSS before cajoling may want to white-list constructs which they know are safe, but which Caja cannot prove safe for arbitrary input.

It may become necessary to support different element definitions for HTML4 vs XHTML.


== Builtin WhiteLists ==
  * [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/html/html4-elements.json  resource:///com/google/caja/html/html4-elements.json] [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/html/html4-elements-defs.json  defs] [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/html/html4-elements-whitelist.json  whitelist]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/html/html4-attributes.json resource:///com/google/caja/html/html4-attributes.json] [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/html/html4-attributes-defs.json  defs] [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/html/html4-attributes-whitelist.json  whitelist]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/css/css21.json resource:///com/google/caja/lang/css/css21.json] [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/css/css21-defs.json defs] [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/source/browse/trunk/src/com/google/caja/lang/css/css21-whitelist.json whitelist]





== WhiteList File Format Overview ==

A white-list is a [http://www.json.org/ JSON file] like:
{{{
{
  "description":
      "Extends the default HTML tag WhiteList to allow <OBJECT> and deny <IFRAME>",

  "inherits": [
    { "src": "resource:///com/google/caja/html/tags.json" }
  ],

  "allowed": [
    { "key": "OBJECT" }
  ],

  "denied": [
    { "key": "IFRAME" }
  ],

  "types": [
    { "key": "OBJECT", "optionalEnd": false, "empty": false }
  ]
}
}}}

We use JSON, because, unlike XML, parsing it cannot open arbitrary network connections, and it is more extensible since it doesn't make a hard distinction between elements, which can be extended, and attributes, which can't.


== Elements of a WhiteList ==

The example above includes four elements, {{{inherits}}}, {{{allowed}}}, {{{denied}}}, and {{{types}}}.

The cajoler examines the {{{inherits}}} and loads those.  The {{{inherits}}} {{{src}}} can be either a {{{file://...}}} URL, or a special {{{resource://...} URL which is resolved relative to the Cajoler's class-path.

A WhiteList has the form
    {{{
    interface WhiteList {{{
      Set<String> allowedItems();
      Map<String, TypeDefinition> typeDefinitions();

      interface TypeDefinition {
        Object get(String key);
      }
    }
    }}}
  
The cajoler loads a white-list using the following algorithm:
  * Create an empty white-list W
  * For each {{{inherits}}}
    * Fetch its URL -- Abort on failure
    * Load it using this algorithm
    * Add it to the list of loaded white-lists
  * For each loaded white-list LW
    * Add LW's {{{allowed}}} to W
    * Add LW's {{{types}}} to W
  * For each loaded white-list LW
    * Remove any items in W {{{denied}}} in LW's
  * For each {{{allowed}}}
    * Add an item to W.
  * For each {{{denied}}}
    * Remove any item in W with the same key.
  * For each {{{types}}}
    * Remove any type definition from W with the same key.
  * For each {{{types}}}
    * Add a type definition to W
  * If there are type definitions in W with the same key, and the same value, remove all but 1.
  * If there exist any two distinct type definitions in W with the same key, mark W invalid.
  * Return W.

This algorithm preserves the properties that
  * Any item not mentioned in either the start white-list or in inherited white-lists is *denied*.
  * Any item denied by a start is denied.
  * Any item allowed by the start white-list and not also denied is *allowed*.
  * Any item denied by an inherited white-list that is not allowed by the start white-list is denied.
  * Any item allowed by an inherited white-list and not denied by any inherited white-list or by the start white-list is allowed.
  * If the start white-list defines a type for an item, then that type is used for the item.
  * If the start white-list defines an ambiguous type, then processing aborts.
  * If the start white-list defines a type for an item, and inherited white-lists define ambiguous types for an item, then the start white-list's definition is used, and the start white-list is valid.

This allows white-lists to be used in several distinct ways:
  * As a schema -- a white-list that includes only type definitions and neither allows nor denies items may be inherited for its definitions.
  * As a white-list -- a white-list may inherit definitions from a schema and then pick and choose items to allow.
  * As an override -- a white-list may inherit types and definitions from other white-lists and then choose to override allows and definitions made in the inherited lists.

== Type information in WhiteLists ==
For HTML Elements, we need the following type information:
  * {{{empty}}} - does the element not contain any other elements?  {{{<INPUT>}}}, {{{<BR>}}}, and {{{<HR>}}} are examples of empty elements in HTML 4.
  * {{{optionalEnd}}} - does the element require an end tag?  {{{<P>}}} elements do not require end tags in HTML 4, but {{{<TABLE>}}} elements do.

For HTML Attributes, we need the following type information:
  * {{{type}}} - one of the values in {{{com.google.caja.html.HTML.Type}}}: {{{NONE}}}, {{{SCRIPT}}}, {{{STYLE}}}, {{{URI}}}, {{{ID}}}, {{{IDREF}}}, {{{NMTOKEN}}}, {{{NMTOKENS}}}, or {{{FRAME}}}.

For CSS Properties, we need the following type information:
  * {{{signature}}} - a property signature as described and "Value" in the [http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/about.html#property-defs CSS2.1 spec]



== Specifying WhiteLists at the Command Line ==
From usage:
{{{
 --css_prop_schema         A file: or resource: URI
                           of the CSS Property Whitelist to use.
 --html_attrib_schema      A file: or resource: URI
                           of the HTML attribute Whitelist to use.
 --html_property_schema    A file: or resource: URI
                           of the HTML element Whitelist to use.
}}}