#summary How to debug cajoled gadgets in Shindig

  # Check Shindig out.
  # Build it:
{{{
mvn clean
mvn
}}}
  # Run it:
{{{
mvn -Prun
}}}
  # Once it runs you should see which port it puts itself on (usually 8080).
  # Browse to http://localhost:8080/gadgets/files/samplecontainer/samplecontainer.html and make sure gadgets work at all.
  # If that all works ok, then check Caja out.
  # Each time you modify Caja, build:
{{{
ant jars
}}}
  # Copy Caja into Shindig's Maven repository
{{{
cp ant-jars/pluginc.jar ~/.m2/repository/caja/caja/r3164/caja-r3164.jar 
}}}
  # Rebuild and rerun Shindig:
{{{
mvn && mvn -Prun
}}}
  or, optionally, without tests (much faster, but still slow)
{{{
mvn -Dmaven.test.skip=true && mvn -Prun
}}}
  or, in offline mode (reasonably fast)
{{{
mvn -o -Dmaven.test.skip=true && mvn -o -Prun
}}}
  Just this step is sufficient if all you have changed is Shindig.
  # Shift-reload the gadget container in your browser - a simple reload doesn't always seem to get your updates.
  # It also helps to uncheck "Cache".
  # On the browser, it can be helpful to open the gadget frame in a new tab, add {{{&debug=1}}} to the URL (before the {{{#}}}) and shift-reload.
  # With luck, you will now be fully equipped for debugging at all levels.

=Mercurialising Shindig=

Sometimes it might be desirable for several people to work on a checked out version of Shindig to create a patch, rather than just one. Here's how...

  * One person creates a Mercurial repo from the appropriate version of Shindig. In order to avoid merging issues with the Subversion files, don't include them in the Mercurial repo. In the Shindig directory
{{{
hg init
hg add -X 'glob:**/.svn' -X 'glob:.svn'
hg ci
}}}
  In the checkin comment, note the Subversion version it was created from. This may come in handy later!
  * Other participants clone the Mercurial repo...
{{{
hg clone <path to repo> <new directory>
}}}
  * When any participant has a working change, they first sync with the main repo...
{{{
hg pull <path to repo>
hg update
}}}
  then push their own
{{{
hg ci
hg push <path to repo>
}}}
  Note that there will be no email notifications, so other participants need to be told to do a pull/update.
  * To produce the Shindig diff, either the original producer of the repo, who still has a Subversion checkout, can do an update (he won't need to do a pull, because it is his repo that everyone is pushing to) and then carry on in the normal way, or you can check out a fresh copy, pull the Mercurial repo over the top of it, and carry on [[TBD]].

  * Mercurial maintains a record of individual changesets that it has applied and lets you backout the last changeset.  This can sometimes be helpful if you have applied a changeset in error and no one has yet submitted another change.  First backout the latest change
{{{
  hg backout
}}}
  then apply a new patch and resolve any merge issues
{{{
  patch -p0 < yourpatch.patch
  hg merge
}}}
  Once all merge issues are resolved, test your checkout and if everything looks good, commit and push your changes.