#summary Security Advisory 2013/01/22

=Caja Security Advisory 2013/01/22=

==Description==

This is a combined advisory for three unrelated vulnerabilities.

===Exposed taming constructors===

In some cases, the value of the {{{.constructor}}} property of a virtual DOM object was a function (a "taming constructor") which, in ES5/3 mode, could be applied to another object in order to defeat its encapsulation.

===measureText not tamed===

The result of {{{<canvas>.getContext('2d').measureText(...)}}} was not tamed and therefore a host object, which, in ES5 mode, results in complete vulnerability.

===String code execution in window.onload===

If a string were assigned to the virtual {{{window.onload}}} property, then it would be executed as JavaScript in the host page.

== Impact ==

Each of these vulnerabilities can be used to cause arbitrary effects on the host page.

== Advice ==

Upgrade to a version of Caja at or after r5223, or apply the patches from the mentioned reviews or commits below, as soon as possible.

== More Information ==

Discussion of the changes for the exposure of taming constructors is available at https://codereview.appspot.com/6843096/. It was committed as r5220.

The measureText issue was reported publicly, not as a security bug, as [http://code.google.com/p/google-caja/issues/detail?id=1598 Issue 1598]. Discussion of the changes is available at https://codereview.appspot.com/6902057/. It was committed as r5222.

The window.onload issue was recorded as [https://code.google.com/p/google-caja/issues/detail?id=1612 Issue 1612]. Discussion of the changes is available at https://codereview.appspot.com/7001045/. It was committed as r5223.